h1. Pusher module for Play! 2

This module lets you easily interact with the "Pusher Service":http://www.pusher.com within your "Play 2":http://playframework.com application.

h2. Installation

To use this module on your Play 2 application, you need to modify your @Build.scala@ file:

<pre>
val appDependencies = Seq(
  (... your other dependencies, if any ...)
  "tindr" % "play2pusher_2.9.1" % "1.0.1" // Tindr's play2pusher module dependency
)

val main = PlayProject(appName, appVersion, appDependencies, mainLang = SCALA).settings( 
  (... your other settings, if any ...)
  resolvers += Resolver.url("Tindr's Play module repository", 
    url("http://tindr.github.com/releases/"))
    (Resolver.ivyStylePatterns)
)
</pre>

*That's it!* 

Next time you build your project, it will fetch the module from our repository and add it to your project's dependencies.

h2. Usage

Take a look at the @Play2Pusher-sample@ project for a short example on how to use the module.

The preferred usage is as follows:

bc. // Trigger an event on a channel and deliver a message to all the connected sockets:
val pusher = Pusher()
val promise = pusher.trigger(channel, event, message)

Which requires adding the following lines to your application.conf file:

bc. # Pusher Configuration
pusher.appId = APP_ID
pusher.key = KEY
pusher.secret = SECRET

You could also do the following instead of using the application.conf file:

bc. val pusher = Pusher(APP_ID, KEY, SECRET)
val promise = pusher.trigger(channel, event, message)

h3. Examining the response

The Pusher.trigger method returns a Promise[Response], which you can manipulate to verify the response status and body for error handling.

Successful events will respond with a 202 status. For more details, take a look at http://www.pusher.com/docs/rest_api

h3. Excluding sockets

You can also exclude a socket (usually the sender) from receiving the message by specifying its socket id:

bc. pusher.trigger(channel, event, message, socketId)

h3. Generating the authentication string

When a socket tries to connect to a private channel, it will make a POST request to **/pusher/auth** on your server. You will need to generate and return a JSON object containing the auth signature that allows the socket to connect to the private channel. This is achieved by:

bc. pusher.createAuthString(socketId, channelName)

h4. Example

In your controller you can have something like this:

bc. val socketId = "yourSocketId"
val channelName = "yourChannelName"
renderJSON(pusher.createAuthString(socketId, channelName))

h3. Pending work

# Support Presence channels properly.
# Add samples for private and presence channels.